Things To Do in and Around Aarhus


Thinking of a short break in Aarhus? We're here to help you plan a few days in Aarhus, 
packed with some of Scandinavia's most unique tourist attractions and Danish events you 
shouldn't miss. Aarhus is the perfect city break destination. It's small and easy to get 
to know, it's full of photo-worthy sights, like the Iceberg building and Your Rainbow 
Panorama at the ARos Art Museum. It's also a seaside city, close to the beaches, forests 
and the historical attractions of the East Jutland region. Pack your suitcases and enjoy 
these things to do in Aarhus on your next visit.


1. Grab a coffee or dinner in the Latin Quarter

The Latin Quarter in Aarhus is not only the oldest part of the city. It's also a great 
place to soak up the timeless feel of Aarhus while enjoying all the modern perks of city 
travel; great restaurants, cafés and shops. Don't leave Aarhus without exploring the Latin 
Quarter!


2. Step back in time at the famous Old Town Open Air Museum

Lose yourself in Aarhus of old; wander the cobbled streets and take in the historical 
buildings, exhibitions, workshop and shops of Aarhus famous Old Town open air museum. 
You can experience Denmark of Hans Christian Andersen's time right in Aarhus city centre!



3. Walk in ARoS Art Museum's rainbow

Your Rainbow Panorama on the rooftop at ARoS Art Museum has become an Aarhus icon. 
As well as walking through this rainbow with views over Aarhus, you can explore 
ARos' world-class art exhibitions and enjoy a unique lunch in their café.


4. Plunge 40m in terrifying free fall!

Head just outside Aarhus to the forest of Marselisborg and you'll hear terrible screams. 
Hidden in the woods is Tivoli Friheden, a popular amusement park for all ages with, 
amongst other things, one of the world's most terrifying free falls, the Sky Tower!


5. Get your camera ready: Møllestien

Møllestien is a quaint, cobbled street, right at the centre of Aarhus and surely one 
of Aarhus' most photographed places. The houses on Møllestien are mainly from the 18th 
century, but the street itself dates all the way back to Viking times. Head there for a 
photo and to soak up the old charm of Aarhus' past.









