The history of Denmark

Denmark has a rich history which dates all the way back to c. 12500 BC. We've gathered
some of the key historical events that have shaped the country which is now known as Dennark.




Until year 700: The prehistoric era
c. 12500 BC: The first hunters inhabit Danish lands.

3900 BC: Basic society built on agriculture and animal husbandry.

400-700: Urbanisation begins.



700-1000: Vikings rule the seas
866-867: Viking conquest of York, which becomes the Viking capital of England.

c.965: Introduction of Christianity to Denmark.



1000-1600: The Middle Ages
1015-1034: England under Danish rule.

1397-1523: The Kalmar Union, uniting Denmark with Norway (including Greenland, the Faroe Islands, Shetland, Orkney and Iceland) and Sweden (including Finland).

1479: Founding of Copenhagen University.

1536: The Reformation, Norway incorporated into Denmark.



1600-1850: The beginning and end of absolutism
1660-1661: Introduction of absolutism – the absolute power of the monarchy to rule.

1666-1917: Danish colonies created in the Caribbean.

1807: Bombing of Copenhagen by the English navy.

1814: Norway’s departure from the Union.

1848: Abolition of absolutism.

1849: First liberal constitution, the June Constitution.




1850-1945: War time period
1864: Loss of the German duchies.

1914-1918: Danish neutrality during the First World War.

1915: Constitutional reform, enfranchisement of women.

1920: North-Schleswig vote in favour of reunion with Denmark.

1940-1945: German occupation during WWII.




Post-1945: an era of political memberships
1945: Founding membership of the UN.

1949: Membership of NATO.

1973: Membership of the EEC.

1993: Membership of the EU.

2011: First female Prime Minster in office.



8 REASONS WHY EVERYONE SHOULD VISIT DENMARK


Having lived in Denmark for one year, I always tend to reminisce about our time
there and the most beautiful moments we lived. That’s why I thought it’s time to
collect all of those memories and share them with you, so that next time you are
lacking travel inspiration, you can check some of the reasons why you should pack
your bags and head to this Scandinavian country full of happy vibes.
This blog emphasizes 9 reasons why everyone should visit Denmark at least once.



1. Danes hygge year round

At the top of my list is the concept of hygge, which everyone who has travelled
or stayed in Denmark has heard about. Hygge is a feeling all the Danish people
understand, but it’s quite hard to explain. It’s about feeling well in the presence
of your loved ones in a homely environment, enjoying the little things which make us
happy and tasty food prepared at home with the help of the others. It’s about candles,
sweets, hot chocolate, fireplaces, fluffy blankets and days spent on the beach.
Hygge is above all a way of living well each day and enjoying the present rather than
waiting for the right moment to come. Knowing all this, it’s no wonder why Denmark always
ranks among the top countries when it comes to finding the happiest people in the world.
Hygge will mean different things to different people depending on their past experiences,
culture and traditions, but we can all have hygge in our lives whether we acknowledge it or not.
Advice: Go to Denmark and learn from the best, come back and make your days a little more hyggelig.




2. One of Europe’s best Carnival is held in Denmark

While Rio might be too far from many of us, you can still get
a taste of the carnival atmosphere in Denmark. With both Aalborg and
Copenhagen having their own parades, the country ranks high when it comes to throwing
amazing carnival parties.
I have only been to the carnival in Aalborg and would suggest you to pick that one over
the one in Copenhagen since the city is smaller and you will feel the entertainment more
intense. There are more than 65.000 participants and 100.000 spectators each year, each one
of them ready to have fun and make this a memorable day.


3. Denmark has the real Santa

We have celebrated only one Christmas in Denmark, but it was one of the best we ever had.
Their Christmas markets are full of beautiful fairy lights, the fresh scent of pine trees,
delicious treats and chestnuts, not to mention their mulled wine called gløgg. For those
interested I have the original recipe.

But what impressed me the most is that they actually have the real Santa. When we went to the
 Christmas market in Aalborg I met him myself. I couldn’t help but stare at him, as it looked
just like I have imagined him my whole childhood. I know it’s hard to believe, but you can go
and see for yourself.




4. Danes are in love with their bikes

You will soon realise everyone loves biking no matter the weather and there are actually
more bikes than cars, with more than 50% of Copenhagen’s citizens cycling to their work
place or university.
It’s really easy to cycle in Denmark due to their amazing cycling infrastructure and the
fact that the country is pretty flat making it easy to cycle long distances.
The best way to visit any of the Danish cities is to rent a bike and Copenhagen has an
amazing bike scheme you could use to explore its neighbourhoods.




5. You need to see the Rubjerg Knude Lighthouse before it disappears

On a windy day, we took our bikes and headed to this place in Northern-Denmark to see the sand
dunes and experience a bit of the desert feel.
Located 60 m above sea level, this place impresses with its beautiful dramatic scenery where
the coast is constantly eroded by the sea and the large amounts of sand are blown up piling
around the lighthouse.
It is believed that by 2023, the lighthouse will fall into the sea, so if you want to see it,
you better hurry.


6. Denmark abounds in beautiful art ready to surprise you


From modern art museums, such as ARKEN Museum of Modern Art in Copenhagen or ARoS Museum
in Aarhus where there is a rainbow panorama with 360º views of the surrounding city to
surprising works of art hidden in backyards, Denmark has a plethora of interesting art
works waiting to be discovered.



7. Danes are great at preserving their Gamle By (old town) as it once used to be


Aarhus’ Old Town is one of the best preserved in the country. You will have the impression you
have stepped back in time having the chance to walk on the cobblestoned streets lined with
17th century houses and meet people dressed in costumes from that period.
You will see them cooking, sewing or chopping wood, acting as if they were still living
those times.


8. See for yourself the place where 2 seas meet


Situated in the northernmost part of Denmark, Skagen is the place where you can experience
a unique natural phenomenon. This is where the North and Baltic Seas meet.
The city also has pretty houses and long sandy beaches you can enjoy during summer time
and if you are lucky, you will also see seals swimming or resting on the beach



















































